1. Define HTML?  Explain the layout of HTML?

HTML stands for Hyper Text Markup Language

HTML has several semantic elements
<header> - A header for a document or a section
<nav> - Contain set of navigation items
<section> - A section in a document
<article> - A independent content
<aside> - Content in the side of document
<footer> - It last section of the document

2. Define the terms:
·  HTML element & HTML tags
·  HTML attributes
·  HTML iframe

HTML elements contains a start tag and an end tag
Example : <html> <body> <h1> <p>

HTML tags are like keywords which define that how web browser will format and display.
Example : <strong> <em> <a>

HTML attrinutes provide additional information about the element
Example : charset="utf-8"

An HTML iframe is used to display a web page within a web page
The HTML <iframe> tag specifies an inline frame.

3. HTML 5 VS. HTML?
HTML
It didn’t support audio and video without the use of flash player support.
It uses cookies to store temporary data.
Does not allow JavaScript to run in browser.
Elements like nav, header were not present.

HTML 5
It supports audio and video controls with the use of <audio> and <video> tags.
It uses SQL databases and application cache to store offline data.
Allows JavaScript to run in background. This is possible due to JS Web worker API in HTML5.
New element for web structure like nav, header, footer etc.

4. What is SVG in HTML?
Since SVG is written in XML, all elements must be properly closed

5. Define CSS. What are its components and types?
Cascading Style Sheet

Inline CSS
Internal or Embedded CSS
External CSS

6. Differentiate CSS box model and flex box with examples.
CSS Box Model
The box model has been around the longest and remains a viable approach to layout design. It relies on margins, borders, and padding to define the spacial relationships
between UI elements. Using things like float and clear, these "boxes" of content can be aligned both vertically and horizontally on the page.

CSS Flexbox
Flexbox is a more recently released layout feature that emphasizes responsive design. Using flexbox, you can specify how elements should grow/shrink to fit different 
screen sizes. Parent flex container divs contain flex items in either a vertical or horizontal direction.

7. What is cell spacing and cell padding?
 The cell padding attribute places spacing around data within each cell. The cell spacing attribute places space around each cell in the table. 

8. What is bootstrap?
Bootstrap is the most popular CSS Framework for developing responsive and mobile-first websites.

9. Define the terms:
	bootstrap carousel
   	bootstrap grid system
   	bootstrap navbar

The carousel is a slideshow for cycling through a series of content, built with CSS 3D transforms and a bit of JavaScript. It works with a series of images, text, or 
custom markup. It also includes support for previous/next controls and indicators

The Bootstrap grid system has four classes: xs (for phones - screens less than 768px wide) sm (for tablets - screens equal to or greater than 768px wide) md 
(for small laptops - screens equal to or greater than 992px wide) lg (for laptops and desktops - screens equal to or greater than 1200px wide)

The navbar is one of the prominent features of Bootstrap sites. Navbars are responsive 'meta' components that serve as navigation headers for your application or site.
At its core, the navbar includes styling for site names and basic navigation.

10.   What is GIT? Explain the Git architecture?

Git is a free and open-source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency. It is called 
open-source because it provides the flexibility to modify its source code according to the user's needs

11.  Difference between 1. GIT and GitHub 2. git pull and git fetch?

When comparing Git pull vs fetch, Git fetch is a safer alternative because it pulls in all the commits from your remote but doesn't make any changes to your local files.
Git fetch is a bit different; you can use the Git fetch command to see all of the remote's changes without applying them.

12.  What is java script? List its features.

JavaScript is a dynamic computer programming language. It is lightweight and most commonly used as a part of web pages, whose implementations allow client-side script to 
interact with the user and make dynamic pages. It is an interpreted programming language with object-oriented capabilities.

13.  What is the difference between Local storage & Session storage?

sessionStorage is similar to localStorage, the difference is that while data in localStorage doesn't expire, data in sessionStorage is cleared when the page session ends.
Whenever a document is loaded in a particular tab in the browser, a unique page session gets created and assigned to that particular tab.

14.  What is 'this' keyword in JavaScript?

The JavaScript this keyword refers to the object it belongs to. Alone, this refers to the global object. In a function, this refers to the global object. In a function
in strict mode, this is undefined . In an event, this refers to the element that received the event.

15.   What are all types of Pop-up boxes available in JavaScript?

There are three types of pop up boxes in JavaScript namely Alert Box, Confirm Box and Prompt Box.

16.  What is the difference between === operator and == operator? Explain with an example.

The ‘==’ operator tests for abstract equality . it does the necessary type conversions before doing the equality comparison.
But the ‘===’ operator tests for strict equality i.e it will not do the type conversion hence if the two values are not of the same type, when compared, it will return 
false.

17.  Explain what is pop () and push () method in JavaScript?
The push operation places an element at the top of stack whereas the pop operation removes an element from the top of the stack.

18.    Explain try n catch concept in java string using examples.

The try statement allows you to define a block of code to be tested for errors while it is being executed. The catch statement allows you to define a block of code to be
 executed, if an error occurs in the try block.

19.  Explain error and exception handling with examples.
Error : An Error “indicates serious problems that a reasonable application should not try to catch.” Both Errors and Exceptions are the subclasses of java. lang. 
Throwable class. Errors are the conditions which cannot get recovered by any handling techniques.

 

















